---
layout: post
title: Fear Not the Terminal!
permalink: /fear-not-the-terminal
date: '2015-04-19'
comments: true
tags:
- terminal
- code
- aliases
- workflow
header-bg: ../images/posts/terminal.jpg
subtitle: TEXT
---

As a ~~designer or developer~~ person who uses a computer, the terminal is your best friend! But understandably, that big white or black box with a ticking pointer can appear very intimidating. Especially when filled with red error messgaes. Who knows what kind of damage trolls on the internet who are telling you to type commands into your terminal can do to your computer.

Education is key here. When you understand what some basic commands are doing, you can overcome terminal-dation (just go with it) and really improve your workflow!

**Please Note: The following commands are for unix-based systems (like Mac) only. I can't help you with Windows. Sorry!**

## Working the Command Line

If you're only using the terminal *sometimes* &mdash; maybe to run task runners (like [Gulp](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp) or [Grunt](https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt)), and use Github, there are a few key commands that will help you with your workflow.

### Moving Around the Terminal Prompt
* `ctrl` + `A` will bring you to the beginning of your line. Forgot to add sudo? Don't wait to space through to the begining of your line, simply press `ctrl` + `A` and get there. Alternatively, `!!` repeats the last command, so you could type `sudo !!` to yield the same result.
* `ctrl` + `E` puts the cursor at the end of the line.

### Controlling Processes
* `ctrl` + `Z` pauses a process. If you're running Gulp and commit your changes, you don't have to open a new tab. Just pause the process. Type `ctrl` + `Z`, and your terminal should allow entry for a new command. To see all of the paused processes, enter `jobs` &mdash; a command that will list all of the paused jobs. Resume the process with `fg`, which stands for *"foreground"*. It brings your job from the background to the foreground
* `ctrl` + `C` cancels a process. This is how you stop a process (such as Gulp). You will need to restart it

### Dealing with Files
- `open .` will open up the directory which you are currently in. This is great if you need a view of your file system.
- `mkdir foldername` creates a folder *(mkdir = make directory)* within the directory you are currently inside of.
- `touch filename` creates files. I use this often! You can also use a shortcut `:>filename.txt` to save a few keystrokes. The `:` denotes an empty command.

### Editing Files
- `vim` will open an in-terminal text-editor called [Vim](http://www.openvim.com/). You can do `vim .` to open and navigate the directory or open a specific file immediately with `vim filename`.
- The `&&` allows you to string commands together. The `;` also allows this. The difference is that the `&&` occurs within the same command, and the `;` breaks them up. So you can do `mkdir hello; cd hello; touch world.txt && vim !`
- `subl .` is a popular symlink that enables you to open files directly in Sublime text. You need to set up this command with [this](http://www.sublimetext.com/docs/3/osx_command_line.html) tutorial.

## Customizing Your Terminal

### Aliases


### ZSH

how to make it look friendlier (zsh, etc.)
alias commands
http://seesparkbox.com/foundry/command_line_tools_for_frontend_developers

